# Vanets_Intrusion_Detection_System
Internet of Things (IoT) devices is paving its way rapidly to be an integral part of our lives. Concurrently, the new dawn of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is also witnessed by the world, hence integrating these IoT devices with the power of Machine Learning (ML) is something that, hopefully, will elevate our standard of living in a better way. Intelligent Transport System (ITS) is such IoT technology where IoT uses modern information and telecommunications technology to provide smart transportation systems. One of the domains ITS is Vehicular Adhoc Networks (VANETs), which are a special class of Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (MANETs), constituting of vehicles equipped with wireless devices. One of the crucial messages in these networks are broadcast-authenticated periodic one-hop beacons, which are used for safety and traffic efficiency applications, like traffic jam detection and collision avoidance. In such network environment, it is often habitual of the attackers to conduct intrusions. For example, Place spoofing, which is an intentional location deception in a vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication, can cause traffic congestion and other safety hazards. 

Thus, objective of this project is to trace such misbehavior conducted by attackers with the help of lightweight ML tree based models such as Decision Tree (DT), Random Forest (RF) and Extra Tree Ensemble (ETE) algorithms and analyze application network data in these interconnected IoT devices which further can result in revocation of such traces. This will be achieved by utilizing the Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) Vehicle Communications Data Set. The three models are also compared. It can be concluded from the experimental analysis and ROC plots comparison that, due to high cross validation accuracy and low standard deviation results for ETE, even though the DT model performs better in terms of test accuracy for the current dataset, ETE shall exceed both DT and RF when tests are conducted with more complex datasets in the future.

# Dataset Description
The dataset consists of information regarding dedicated short range communication communications between vehicles and road side units. We have combined two seperate sets of normal scenario and attack scenario into one set for our experimental analysis. The communications in the dataset were setup based on IEEE 802.11p standards at 5.9Ghz. 10BSM (Basic Service messages) per second and are using Control Channel (Ch172) a 10 Mhz channel. The dataset consists of 390 simulations in normal scenario as well as in presence of an attacker. The key attributes are Transmitted node ID number, Received Node Id number, Received Signal Strength in dbm, Packet Error Rate, Received Signal Strength Indicator, Signal to noise ratio and the Target value suggests whether the scenario is normal or in presence of a jammer. The dataset can be found on https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/DSRC+Vehicle+Communications 
